For Collab Cloud, our team ended up using the Agile software development process alongside the Scrum
methodology. The Agile software development process paired with Scrum worked well for our team 
because it allowed us to work in an environment where we could dynamically switch roles and 
constantly update our product during the 4-month development period. The different phases of Scrum 
allowed our team to stay organized and focus on the task at hand for each sprint.

Always updating and reviewing the product backlog allowed our team to focus development on the 
core features of Collab Cloud; whereas the sprint backlog helped us set incremental goals for each 
sprint. Daily standups allowed us to keep our peers always informed on the status of our user stories 
while ensuring sprints were progressing in a timely manner. Sprint planning worked well for your team 
because it allowed us to reflect on our user stories and iron out any flaws, we encountered along the 
way to make our future sprints better. We also made sure every member was able to communicate their 
ideas and thoughts properly. This technique worked well for us because it allowed us to resolve any 
conflicts members may have had and ensured every member was satisfied with the project.

We also made sure that all Pull Requests must be tested on all team member’s machines. This worked 
well for us because it ensured that our project was always working on everyone’s machine. We also 
adopted a convention for commit messages, specifically used emojis to categorize different commits 
which made them easier to read. Alerting team members for any changes within the project such as 
environment variables also worked well for the team as it made sure that all group members were 
updated on the state of the project.

A decision that caused the team to be inefficient was the way we divided up different tasks at the 
beginning of the project. We would give one team member the front-end portion of the task and give 
the other member the backend portion. Since both tasks depended on each other, it caused a lot of 
time-management problems within group members. To combat this situation, we made sure that the 
team member responsible for that task would be responsible for both the back-end and front-end tasks. 
This ensured that the different tasks were less dependent on each other.

If we had to design a process and continue working as a team, we would have a similar development 
process as Agile/Scrum because it worked well for the project we were trying to develop. We would 
keep all techniques and phases of Scrum that worked well for us like Product and Sprint backlog, 
software release, sprint planning, etc. In addition to the Scrum phases, we would also add a feedback 
phase that would occur every mid-sprint, so group members have a chance to learn more about other 
user stories and seek aid in finishing their own.
